---
title: "5. User Controls"
order-number: 6
---
## 5. User Controls

### Accessibility Requirements

-   [WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html): For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Test Method Rationale

The purpose of this Baseline test is to check the following accessibility properties of user controls:
-   Name Change
-   Role (test not yet available) 
-   State 
-   Value

### Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions

-   [User interface component (as defined by WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-user-interface-components) is a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function. User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts. 
-   Examples of controls include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, and links.
-   User-initiated and automatic updates to the name and role of controls are covered in this test. User-initiated changes of state and value of controls are covered in this test. Changes to non-user controls (text, images, etc.) are not covered in this test.

### 5.1 Test Procedure for Changes in Control Name

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.1-ChangedControlName

#### Identify Content
<p id="1IC">Identify changes (both user driven and automatic) in the functionality, appearance or label of user controls. </p>
   <ul>
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of name may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>
	  <li>Examples include entering a response in a form field for country changes the next form field's label from "state" to "province", selecting a control toggles its functionality from sorting ascending to descending, a link appends "Updated" to its name when the linked page is edited.</li>
   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="1TI">
	<li id="1TI-1">Perform an action to modify the name of the user control.</li>
	<li id="1TI-2">Check that the combination of the accessible name and accessible description is not empty after the change. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
    <li id="1TI-3">Check that the non-empty combination of the accessible name and accessible description describes the control's purpose after the change. [SC 1.1.1]  For details on the computation of the accessible name and accessible description, references include:
		<ul>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#input-type-text-input-type-password-input-type-search-input-type-tel-input-type-url-and-textarea-element" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings 1.0 for text <code>input</code></a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#input-type-button-input-type-submit-and-input-type-reset" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>input</code> controls</a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#button-element" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>button</code> element</a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#input-type-image" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>input type="image"</code></a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#other-form-elements" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for Other Form Elements</a></li>
		</ul>
	</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="1TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.1-ChangedControlName fails.</p>

### 5.2 Test Procedure for Control State

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.2-ControlState
#### Identify Content
<p id="2IC">Identify user-initiated changes to the state of user controls. Examples include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, and links.</p>
   <ul>
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of name may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>
	  <li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, a check box changes from checked to unchecked, links that are hovered or visited.</li>
   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="2TI">
	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct in its default state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
	<li id="2TI-2">Attributes such as <code>hidden</code>, <code>disabled</code>, and the use of <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/aria/">ARIA</a> to control component states must be used correctly.</li>
	<li id="2TI-3">Modify the state of the user control.</li>
	<li id="2TI-4">Check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="2TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.2-ControlState fails.</p>

### 5.3 Test Procedure for Control Value

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.3-ControlValue
#### Identify Content
<p id="3IC">Identify controls that have a value that can be changed by a user. Examples include forms that accept user input to modify another component.</p>
   <ul>
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of value may be performed by entering a number, selecting from a list of options, etc.</li>
	  <li>Examples include adjusting a slider modifies a date range that is highlighted in a calendar, entering numbers in text fields determines a graph's data points, selecting colors determines the appearance of links.</li>
   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="3TI">
	<li id="3TI-1">Check that the value of the user control is correct at its default value. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
	<li id="3TI-2">Modify the value of the user control.</li>
	<li id="3TI-3">Check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="3TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.3-ControlValue fails.</p>
<!--
#### Identify Content
<p id="1IC">Identify changes in presented content (both user driven and automatic). Examples include changes to images, navigation trees, data table sort controls, automatic information updates, form elements, revealed content, etc.</p>
   <ul>
      	<li>It may be necessary to use the mouse to determine whether state changes occur on hover or on click.</li>
		<li>Depending on the component, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>
   </ul>
--
#### Test Instructions
<ol id="1TI">
	<li id="1TI-1">Check that the page provides a notification of the change in content programmatically. [SC 4.1.2]
	   <ul>
		  <li>Programmatic event notifications include alert dialogs, focus shifts to the content that changed, and ARIA live regions.</li>
	   </ul>
	</li>
	<li id="1TI-2">For each change in content, check that the combination of name, role, state, and value of the changed content is accurate. [SC 4.1.2]
	   <ol>
			<li id="1TI-2i">Name: the name is accurate after a change.
				<ul>
					<li>Apply the <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#accessible-name-and-description-computation">accessible name and description computation</a>, if applicable.</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li id="1TI-2ii">Role: the role accurately describes the purpose of the element after a change, if applicable.
				<ul>
					<li>Consider ARIA role, element type, and other descriptive text.</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li id="1TI-2iii">State: the state of the element is accurate after a change, if applicable.
				<ul>
					<li>Evaluate ARIA and element-specific attributes (e.g., <code>&#060;option selected=”true”&#062;</code>).</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li id="1TI-2iv">Value: the value is updated after a change, if applicable.</li>
	   </ol>
	</li>
</ol>
--
#### Test Results
<p id="1TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.1-ChangeContent fails.</p>
-->
### Advisory: Tips for streamlined test processes

- Changes to controls may also include changes in color to convey information. If so, this test should check that the information is programmatically determinable. If color is used as the only visual means of conveying information (or changes in information), then the content would fail to meet SC 1.4.1 Use of Color (addressed in [Baseline 7. Sensory Characteristics](../07Sensory)).
- The default accessible name and accessible description of user controls (prior to change) are tested in other Baseline tests, such as [Baseline 10. Forms](../10Forms), [Baseline 14. Links](../14Links). It may be helpful to perform the test for Changes in Control Name with those tests.
- This test may require interaction with controls to assess changes in name, role, state, value. For this test, interaction may be performed with a mouse and/or by keyboard.

#### WCAG 2.0 Techniques
- [F20: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 4.1.2 due to not updating text alternatives when changes to non-text content occur](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F20.html)
