# 5. Changing Content
## Accessibility Requirements
* [WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html): For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Test Method Rationale
The purpose of this Baseline test is to identify visual changes to content and component states that occur without a page/screen refresh and to correlate those changes with equivalent programmatic and/or textual information. 
* Content changes could include component state changes (e.g., closed/open sections, sort order, collapsed/expanded menus), dynamic and/or calculated values (e.g., "34 characters remaining"), and automatically updating content (e.g., stock prices). 
* Content that changes in the course of a user's interaction with the content (including, but not limited to changes in text, component states, structure, relationships, or functionality) must provide a means by which the change in content is programmatically determinable or is otherwise available in text.

## Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions
* The state of form elements (checked, unchecked, etc.) are included in this Baseline.
* User initiated changes and automatic updates are included in this test.

## Test Procedure for SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
## Identify Content
Identify changes in presented content (both user driven and automatic). Examples include changes to images, navigation trees, data table sort controls, automatic information updates, form elements, revealed content, etc. 
* It may be necessary to use the mouse to determine whether state changes occur on hover or on click.
* Depending on the component, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.

### Test Instructions
1. Check that the Web page or software provides a programmatic event notification of each change (e.g., using ARIA live regions for Web or raising the event to the accessibility API).
2. For each change in content, check that the combination of name, role, state, and value of the changed content is accurate and provides adequate information about the change programmatically.
    * Name: the name is accurate after a change. 
        * Web: apply the [accessible name and description](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#accessible-name-and-description-computation) computation, if applicable. 
        * Windows-native software: other properties, such as HelpText, LabeledBy, and DescribedBy should also be included in consideration with the Name property.
    * Role: the role accurately describes the purpose of the element after a change, if applicable.
        * Web: consider ARIA role, element type, and other descriptive text.
        * Windows-native software: evaluate ControlType and/or LocalizedControlType.
    * State: the state of the element is accurate after a change, if applicable 
        * Web: evaluate ARIA and element-specific attributes (e.g., <option selected=”true”>)
        * Windows-native software: evaluate state-related properties, (e.g., the ToggleToggleState propery for a check box control).
    * Value: the value is updated after a change, if applicable.

### Test Results
•	If any of the above checks fails, then SC 4.1.2 and Baseline Requirement 5 fail.

## Advisory: Tips for streamlined test processes
* Changing content might also include changes in color to convey information. If so, this test should check that the name is updated to reflect the meaning of the changed color. If color is used as the only visual means of conveying information (or changes in information), then the content would fail to meet SC 1.4.1 Use of Color (addressed in [Baseline 8. Sensory Characteristics](08Sensory.md))
* The number of event notifications can be very large; if the number of changes to an element is unknown or very large, a sampling approach may be necessary.

----------------------------------------
[Home/Table of Contents](index.md) | [Previous Baseline](04RepetitiveContent.md) | [Next Baseline](06Images.md)
