# 6. Changing Content
## Accessibility Requirements
* [WCAG SC 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-pause.html): For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are true:
    * Moving, blinking, scrolling: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it is essential; and
    * Auto-updating: For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and (2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.
* [WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html): For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Test Method Rationale
To identify visual changes to content and component states that occur without a page refresh and to correlate those changes with equivalent programmatic and/or textual information. Content changes could include component state changes (e.g., closed/open sections, sort order, collapsed/expanded menus), dynamic and/or calculated values (e.g., "34 characters remaining"), and automatically updating content (e.g., stock prices). Content that changes in the course of a user's interaction with the content (including, but not limited to changes in text, component states, structure, relationships, or functionality) must provide a means by which the change in content is programmatically determinable or is otherwise available in text.

Content that may be visually distracting must include a mechanism to pause, stop, hide, or control the frequency of the update, unless it is part of an activity that is essential.

## Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions
* The state of form elements (checked, unchecked, etc.) are included in this Baseline.

## Test Procedure for SC 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide
### Select/Identify Content
Content that automatically starts moving, blinking, scrolling or auto-updating

### Test Instructions
If the content moves, blinks, or scrolls, **and ALL of the following are true:**
* The movement, blinking, or scrolling is NOT part of an activity where the movement, blinking, or scrolling is essential to the activity
* The movement, blinking, or scrolling lasts less than five seconds
* The movement, blinking, or scrolling is presented in parallel with other content

**then**
1. Check that there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it 

-------------------------------------

If the content auto-updates, **and ALL of the following are true:**
* The auto-updating is NOT part of an activity where the auto-updating is essential to the activity
* The auto-updating is presented in parallel with other content

**then**
1. Check that there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update

### Test Results
* If any of the above checks fails, then SC 2.2.2 and Baseline Requirement 6 fail.

## Test Procedure for SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
## Select/Identify Content
Identify changes in presented content (both user driven and automatic). Examples include changes to images, navigation trees, data table sort controls, automatic information updates, form elements, revealed content, etc. 
* It may be necessary to use the mouse to determine whether state changes occur on hover or on click.
* Depending on the component, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.

### Test Instructions
1. For each change in content, check that the combination of name, role, state, and value of the changed content is accurate and provides adequate information about the change programmatically.
   * Name: the name is accurate after a change. Apply the [accessible name and description](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#accessible-name-and-description-computation) computation, if applicable.
   * Role: the role accurately describes the purpose of the element after a change, if applicable.
   * State: the state of the element is accurate after a change, if applicable.
   * Value: the value is updated after a change, if applicable.
1. Check that the page provides a programmatic notification of the change at a level appropriate for the importance of the change for users of assistive technology (e.g., using ARIA live regions).

### Test Results
* If any of the above checks fails, then SC 4.1.2 and Baseline Requirement 6 fail.

## Advisory Tip:
* Changing content might also include changes in color to convey information. If so, this test should check that the name is updated to reflect the meaning of the changed color. If color is used as the only visual means of conveying information (or changes in information), then the content would fail to meet SC 1.4.1 Use of Color (addressed in [Baseline 8. Sensory Characteristics](08Sensory.md))
* If the number of changes to an element is unknown or very large, a sampling approach may be used.

----------------------------------------
[Home/Table of Contents](index.md) | [Previous Baseline](05RepetitiveContent.md) | [Next Baseline](07Images.md)
