# 6. Dynamic Content
## Rationale
### Requirement Rationale
Visual presentation of content changes generally make such changes evident to sighted users, but they can be difficult to impossible to discern for screen-reader users. Content changes could include component state changes (e.g.,   closed/open sections, sort order, collapsed/expanded menus), dynamic and/or calculated values (e.g., "34 characters remaining"), and automatically updating stock prices (e.g., via live regions). Content that changes in the course of a user's interaction with the content (including, but not limited to changes in text, component states, structure, relationships, or functionality) must provide a means by which the change in content is programmatically determinable or is otherwise available in text.

### Test Method Rationale
To identify visual changes to information and compoenent states and to correlate those changes with equivalent programmatic and/or textual information requires manual inspection of changes to content and related programmatic attributes.

## Accessibility Requirements
* WCAG2 SC 1.1.1 Non-text Content: All non-text content that is presented to the user has a text alternative that serves the equivalent purpose. 
* WCAG2 SC 1.3.1 Info and relationships: Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text.
* WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value: For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

## Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions
* Assumption: Dynamic content changes might also include changes in color to convey information; if color is used as the only visual means of conveying information (or changes in information), then the content would fail to meet SC 1.4.1 Use of Color (addressed in [Baseline 8. Color (meaning)](08ColorMeaning.md))
* Exceptions to textual alternatives for non-text content:
    * Controls, Input: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it has a name that describes its purpose.
    * Time-Based Media: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content. (Refer to Guideline 1.2 for additional requirements for media.)
    * Test: If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.
    * Sensory: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.
    * CAPTCHA: If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided, and alternative forms of CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to accommodate different disabilities.
    * Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by assistive technology.

## Test Procedure for SC 1.1.1, 1.3.1, 4.1.2
### Select/Identify Content
Identify content changes presented visually. Examples include images, navigation trees, data table sort controls, automatic information updates, etc. Note: It may be necessary to use the mouse to determine whether state changes occur on hover, or on click.

### Test Instructions
1. Identify content and component state changes presented visually.
1. Check that the accessible name, role and state, when considered together, provide this same information about its current state.
    * If information about the current state of component is not available programmatically, check that equivalent text is provided that conveys the same information.
    * If this test fails, and color is also the sole means of conveying state change, SC 1.4.1 fails in addition to the other SCs addressed in this test ([Baseline 8. Color (meaning)](08ColorMeaning.md)).
1. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for observed content changes, including each possible state for multi-state components.
    * Depending on the component, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.

* **Note**: If the number of possible states is too large or infinite, a sampling approach may be used.

### Test Results
If any of the above checsk fail, these SCs fail: 1.1.1, 1.3.1, 4.1.2

## Baseline Requirement Outcome
If any SC fails, this baseline fails.
