# 16. Links and User Controls

## Rationale
Links and/or user controls must have meaningful names that describe the unique destination, function, and/or purpose of the control for assistive technology.

Scripting Languages (e.g., JavaScript) can be used to attach a function to an element (image, link, etc.), and display information when triggered by an event (usually a mouse event - 'on mouse over', 'on mouse click', etc.). The scripted element must have a meaningful name.

### Test Rationale

### Test Method Rationale

## Accessibility Requirements
* WCAG2 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context) - The purpose of each link can be determined from the link text alone or from the link text together with its programmatically determined link context, except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.
* WCAG 3.2.4 Consistent Identification - Components that have the same functionality within a set of Web pages are identified consistently. 
* WCAG2 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value - For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined.

## Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions
Consistent text alternatives for the same links and user controls are not always “identical.” For instance, in the use of a graphical arrow at the bottom of a Web page that links to the next Web page. The text alternative may say “Go to page 4.” However, the same arrow image on the next page should then state "Go to page 5." 

## Tests for SC 2.4.4, 3.2.4, 4.1.2
### Selector (Identify Content)
1. Find all links and user controls on the page, including those that are scripted elements.

### Test Instructions
1. Check that the purpose of each link/control can be determined from either
  
   a. the link/control text alone or 
  
   b. the link/control text together with its programmatically determined context.
 
2. If test 1 fails, check if any of these exceptions apply:
  
   a. the purpose of the link/control would be ambiguous to users in general.
   
   b. the purpose of the link/control is is supposed to be unknown or obscured.
   
##### Test Results for SC 2.4.4, 4.1.2
* If any of the above checks fail, then the content fails this SC.

## Baseline Requirement Outcome
* If no content fails, then the content passes the Baseline Requirement

## Advisory: Tips for streamlined test processes
* In cases where the link/control takes one to a document or a web application, the name of the document or web application would be sufficient to describe the purpose of the link (which is to take you to the document or web application). (U 2.4.4)

## Notes
1. Baseline has 
   * "[Web only] The list of links will include all client-side image map hotspots. The hotspots are links which must be checked in this test." 
   * Some links may contain images.
   * Some links may be contained in image maps.
Have/should these be moved to Images test?
