# 23. Frames
## Rationale
### Requirement Rationale
Frames are a means of separating sections of a Web page into different navigable regions. The separation of a Web page into frames means that content within the frame can scroll without affecting another frame. Keyboard only users can navigate between frames. (The F6 key is the browser default).

Non-visual users can also use the keyboard to navigate between frames, but if there is no programmatic name for the frames, the user has to read through the content of each frame in an attempt to discern where the information they need might be. This can take a long time, and can lead nonvisual users to make errors. For this reason, it is necessary for each frame to include a descriptive name. The name should make sense when announced in isolation as the user navigates between frames.

### Test Method Rationale
While sighted users can recognize the structure presented by frames and iframes, non-sighted user rely on programmatic elements to determine their content. This test method determines the adequacy of the code to describe the contents of any frames or iframes for Assistive Technology.

In HTML5 the `<frame>` element is marked as obsolete. The `<iframe>` element remains part of the HTML5 specification. --Include language about why we are still testing frames even though they are deprecated.


## Accessibility Requirements
* WCAG SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value -- For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

## Limitations, Assumptions, Exceptions

## Test Procedure for SC 4.1.2
### Select/Identify Content
Find all Frames and iframes in the page

### Test Instructions
1. Check that each `<frame>` has a `title` attribute that describes its content 
1. Check that the combination of [accessible name and description](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#iframe-element) for each `<iframe>` describes its content

### Test Results
* If any of the above checks fail, then the content fails this SC, and this baseline fails.

## Advisory: Tips for a Streamlined Test Process

### WCAG 2.0 Techniques
* The following technique and/or common failures were considered when developing this test procedure for this baseline requirement:
    * [H70: Using frame elements to group blocks of repeated material](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/H70.html)
    * [H64: Using the title attribute of the frame and iframe elements](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/H64.html)
